AC-561: Add a privacy policy (#517)
openmrs/openmrs-contrib-android-client: privacy_policy.md

﻿# Privacy Policy

OpenMRS built the OpenMRS Android client app as an Open Source app. This service is provided by OpenMRS at no cost and is intended for use as is.

This page is used to inform visitors regarding our policies with the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information if anyone decided to use our service.

If you choose to use our service, then you agree to the collection and use of information in relation to this policy. The personal information that we collect is used for providing and improving the service. We will not use or share your information with anyone except as described in this Privacy Policy.

The terms used in this Privacy Policy are subjected to [OpenMRS License](https://openmrs.org/license/).

## Information Collection and Use
For a better experience, while using our service, we may require you to provide us with *personally identifiable information*, including but not limited to 

1. Full name
2. Full address

> 3. Gender, birth-date and age

Reviewer: Sorry for the grammar suggestions, but it should be like this:
3. Gender, birth-date, and age

> 4. hotographs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Your photographs
```

5. Provider information
6. Notes on symptoms and other information

> 7. Medical diagnostics and vitals (Body temperature, pulse rate, blood pressure,weight, height,respiratory rate)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. Medical diagnostics and vitals (body temperature, pulse rate, blood pressure, weight, height, and respiratory rate)
```

8. Medical treatment information
9. Medical appointments

The information that we request will be retained by us and used as described in this privacy policy.

> Link to privacy policy of third party service providers used by the app

Reviewer: "Link to the privacy policy of third party service providers used by the app"

*   [Google Play Services](https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/)

### Log and App Usage Data

> 1.  App’s log data – This log data may include certain outputs of the app, success and failure states of network calls, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  App’s log data: such as certain outputs of the app, success and failure states of network calls, etc.
```

### Client Side
1. Password Hashing –  [BCrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt) hashing function.
2.  Local database encryption – Uses [AES-256 Cipher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) (using a combination of username and password as its key)

### Server Side
1.  Patient’s Identifiers are validated using [Mod10](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luhn_algorithm) algorithm. This is used while creating new Patient’s Identifiers and avoid errors.
2.  Data is transmitted through a secure SSL connection
3.  Strings are hashed using [SHA-512](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-2)

## Data Retention
We retain all the data generated by the Android app and web client. If an account is deactivated/deleted, we move the data related to that account away from our active database **but** is retained in our backup database.

## Further Notes
1.  We do not sell your data

> 2.  All these personal details helps in creating a record of a certain patient. It helps the users of this app (the Providers) to maintain the track of the patient.

Reviewer: " 2.  All these personal details help in creating a record of a certain patient. It helps the users of this app (the Providers) to maintain the track of the patient. "

> 3.  For users’ assistance we may require the personal details of the patients (such as date-of-birth, name, etc) to easily track the patient and find their records.

Reviewer: " 3.  For users’ assistance, we may require the personal details of the patients (such as date-of-birth, name, etc) to easily track the patient and find their records. "

> 4.  We may aggregate and combine all personal information that we receive through this app (see the _Information Collection and Use_) as well as from the app’s log and usage data and use them to provide better experience across our platforms (both web and mobile).

Reviewer: "4.  We may aggregate and combine all personal information that we receive through this app (see the _Information Collection and Use_) as well as from the app’s log and usage data and use them to provide **a better** experience across our platforms (both web and mobile). "

## Information Sharing and Disclosure

> 1.  The Patients are not our immediate/primary/end users of this app

Reviewer: " 1.  Patients are not our immediate/primary/end users of this app "

Reviewer 2: @Abdelaty you can suggest changes by pressing `Ctrl + G` when commenting on a line.

## Children’s Privacy

These services do not address anyone under the age of 13\. We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from children under 13\. In the case we discover that a child under 13 has provided us with personal information, we immediately delete this from our servers. If you are a parent or guardian and you are aware that your child has provided us with personal information, please contact us so that we will be able to do necessary actions.

## Changes to This Privacy Policy

We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. Thus, you are advised to review this page periodically for any changes. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page. These changes are effective immediately after they are posted on this page.

### Contact Us

> If you have any questions or suggestions about our Privacy Policy, do not hesitate to contact us.

Reviewer 2: Include a link to our Talk page and https://openmrs.org/about/contact/

## Privacy Policy

> OpenMRS built the OpenMRS Client app as an Open Source app. This SERVICE is provided by OpenMRS at no cost and is intended for use as is.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
OpenMRS built the OpenMRS Android client app as an Open Source app. This service is provided by OpenMRS at no cost and is intended for use as is.
```

> This page is used to inform visitors regarding our policies with the collection, use, and disclosure of Personal Information if anyone decided to use our Service.

Reviewer 2: Watch capital letters.
```suggestion
This page is used to inform visitors regarding our policies with the collection, use, and disclosure of personal information if anyone decided to use our service.
```

> If you choose to use our Service, then you agree to the collection and use of information in relation to this policy. The Personal Information that we collect is used for providing and improving the Service. We will not use or share your information with anyone except as described in this Privacy Policy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you choose to use our service, then you agree to the collection and use of information in relation to this policy. The personal information that we collect is used for providing and improving the service. We will not use or share your information with anyone except as described in this Privacy Policy.
```

> The terms used in this Privacy Policy have the same meanings as in our Terms and Conditions, which is accessible at OpenMRS Client unless otherwise defined in this Privacy Policy.

Reviewer 2: @deepak140596 Do we have a terms and conditions page? If not, I think you should rephrase this and mention https://openmrs.org/license/ .

Author: I couldn't find the terms and conditions page, so I rephrased it as

The terms used in this Privacy Policy are subjected to [OpenMRS License](https://openmrs.org/license/).

> **Information Collection and Use**

Reviewer 2: add a new line. Make this into a header instead.

> For a better experience, while using our Service, we may require you to provide us with certain *personally identifiable information*, including but not limited to 

Reviewer 2: remove unnecessary capital letters. Remove 'certain'

1. Patient's full name
2. Patient’s full address
3. Patient’s Gender, Birth-date and Age
4. Patient’s Photographs

> 5. Patient's Provider Information

Reviewer 2: You can remove `Patient's` from these 5 points. Remove unnecessary capital letters.

6. Notes on symptoms and other information

> 7. Medical Diagnostics and Vitals (Body temperature, pulse rate, blood pressure,etc)

Reviewer 2: List all of them.

8. Medical treatment information
9. Medical appointments

The information that we request will be retained by us and used as described in this privacy policy.

> The app does use third party services that may collect information used to identify you.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The app does use third party services that may collect information used to identify you, except [Google Play Services](https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/).
```
Remove the 2 lines below.

Link to privacy policy of third party service providers used by the app

*   [Google Play Services](https://www.google.com/policies/privacy/)

**Log and App Usage Data**
1.  App’s log data – This log data may include certain outputs of the app, success and failure states of network calls, etc.

> 2.  App usage data - This App Usage Data may include information such as your computer’s IP address, device model and version, device identifier, operating system, time zone, name of your mobile operator or ISP, application performance measurements, and error conditions

Reviewer 2: @deepak140596 Are you sure the Android client is collecting all of these info? If not, just remove this line.

Author: I am not sure about the App usage data but time-zone, error conditions are being collected. 
For log's data, I am sure that that all the log outputs are being collected when a user tries to send a crash report.

Author: @f4ww4z , I have updated the policy, except for the "app usage data". I am still not sure whether to keep it or remove it.

Reviewer 2: You should remove everything except time zone and error conditions. And keep it short.
```suggestion
2.  App usage data: your time zone, application performance measurements, and error conditions.
```

**Cookies**
Cookies are files with a small amount of data that are commonly used as anonymous unique identifiers. These are sent to your browser from the websites that you visit and are stored on your device's internal memory.

> This Service does not use these “cookies” explicitly. However, the app may use third party code and libraries that use “cookies” to collect information and improve their services. You have the option to either accept or refuse these cookies and know when a cookie is being sent to your device. If you choose to refuse our cookies, you may not be able to use some portions of this Service.

Reviewer 2: Watch out for unnecessary capital letters.

> **Service Providers**

Reviewer 2: This is not a PWA app. Please remove this section.

We may employ third-party companies and individuals due to the following reasons:

*   To facilitate our Service;
*   To provide the Service on our behalf;
*   To perform Service-related services; or
*   To assist us in analyzing how our Service is used.

We want to inform users of this Service that these third parties have access to your Personal Information. The reason is to perform the tasks assigned to them on our behalf. However, they are obligated not to disclose or use the information for any other purpose.

> **Data Storage**

Reviewer 2: Header

> The app is meant for both Offline as well as Online use. Therefore, we store the data both locally on the device as well as on our servers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our app may be used when offline as well as online. Therefore, we store the data both locally on the device as well as in our servers.
```

> **Security**

Reviewer 2: Make this into a header.

We value your trust in providing us your Personal Information, thus we are striving to use commercially acceptable means of protecting it. But remember that no method of transmission over the internet, or method of electronic storage is 100% secure and reliable, and we cannot guarantee its absolute security. Some of the security measures taken by us are:

> *Client Side*

Reviewer 2: Make this into a smaller header.

> 1. Hashing Users’ Password – this App uses [BCrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt) hashing function.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Password hashing: [BCrypt](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bcrypt) hashing function.
```

> 2.  Local Database Encryption – Uses [AES-256 Cipher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) (using a combination of username and password as its key)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2.  Local database encryption – [AES-256 Cipher](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Advanced_Encryption_Standard) (using a combination of username and password as its key)
```

> *Server Side*

Reviewer 2: Small header.

1.  Patient’s Identifiers are Validated using [Mod10](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Luhn_algorithm) algorithm. This is used while creating new Patient’s Identifiers and avoid errors.
2.  Data is transmitted through a Secure SSL Connection
3.  Strings are Hashed using [SHA-512](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SHA-2)

> **Data Retention**

Reviewer 2: Header.

> We retain all the data generated by the app and web client. If an account is deactivated/deleted, we move the data related to that account away from our active database BUT is retained in our Backup database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We retain all the data generated by the Android app and web client. If an account is deactivated/deleted, we move the data related to that account away from our active database **but** is retained in our backup database.
```

> **How do we use your data**

Reviewer 2: Turn into a header. Change to 'Further notes'

1.  We do not sell your data

> 2.  All these personal details helps in creating a record of a certain patient. It helps the Users of this app (the Providers) to maintain the track of the patient.

Reviewer 2: @deepak140596 Watch for unnecessary capital letters.

> 3.  For users’ assistance we may require the personal details of the Patients (such as DoB, name, etc) to easily track the patient and find their records

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3.  For users’ assistance we may require the personal details of the Patients (such as DoB, name, etc) to easily track the patient and find their records.
```

> 4.  We may aggregate and combine all personal information that we receive through the app from the Patient’s section as well as from the app’s log and usage data and use them to provide better experience across our platforms (both Web and Mobile)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4.  We may aggregate and combine all personal information that we receive through this app (see the _Information Collection and Use_) as well as from the app’s log and usage data and use them to provide better experience across our platforms (both Web and mobile).
```

**Children’s Privacy**

These Services do not address anyone under the age of 13\. We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from children under 13\. In the case we discover that a child under 13 has provided us with personal information, we immediately delete this from our servers. If you are a parent or guardian and you are aware that your child has provided us with personal information, please contact us so that we will be able to do necessary actions.

**Changes to This Privacy Policy**

We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. Thus, you are advised to review this page periodically for any changes. We will notify you of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page. These changes are effective immediately after they are posted on this page.

**Contact Us**

If you have any questions or suggestions about our Privacy Policy, do not hesitate to contact us.

> This privacy policy page was created at [privacypolicytemplate.net](https://privacypolicytemplate.net) and modified/generated by [App Privacy Policy Generator](https://app-privacy-policy-generator.firebaseapp.com/)

Reviewer 3: @deepak140596 I think we can remove the last 2 lines regarding the privacy policy creation.

Reviewer 2: Agreed.
